welcome back to recap in minutes in
today's video we will be going through
a 2017 crime drama movie titled american
made spoilers ahead watch out and take care
in 1978 barry seal works as a
pilot for trans world airlines
he comes home tired every time after work he
is married to a woman called lucy next scene
shows barry packing packets of cuban cigar he
smuggled into the country via canada into a box
while at a bar one night barry drops the box
to a bartender and receives some cash in an
envelope as exchange he is also found by a man
saying his name is monty schafer he is familiar
with berry's work as a pilot and a smuggler of
cuban cigars but schafer offers him a chance to
make better money by taking on reconnaissance
missions for the cia in a smaller plane with
cameras just south of the border schafer takes
barry to a hangar which he shows him a small fast
point engine piper smith aerostar 600 outfitted
with sophisticated aerial surveillance cameras
he convinces barry that he would be working
for the good guys but it would have to be kept
completely secret even from his own family he
then lets barry take the plane out for a ride
barry tells his wife lucy he's still working for
trans world airlines one day at his regular duty
for trans world airlines barry gets annoyed
with his regular work routines before takeoff
he rudely leaves the plane and leaves the job
as a pilot for trans world airlines for good
as he begins his new job berry starts making
tapes documenting his travels and exploits
he flies over countries like guatemala el salvador
and honduras during one of his exploits the fan
wing of his plane gets hit by the militants
but still makes it out after each exploits
barry changes to the former airline uniform he
worked for before heading home so as to make lucy
believes he still works with the airline schafer
is so impressed with the photos that barry brings
back to him that he assigns barry a new task of
being a bagman between the cia and general Manuel
in panama who sells the agency's intel on all
the commis barry's work is just to drop off and
pick up on his mission barry meets the Medellin
cartel members that takes him to cartel leader
jorge ochoa who introduced him to other cartel
bosses carlos Lehder and pablo escobar they had
a few difficulties getting cocaine export to the
country so they decided to try new ideas they want
to get their drugs into the united states but the
runway for the planes is too risky for most pilots
barry takes his plane for a ride and almost
crashes into the trees but manages to pull up
and continue his flight with ease delivering the
drugs via air drop in the countryside instead of
landing at an airport before getting back to
the u.s without getting in trouble barry now
has the trust of the cartel however the dea has
raid one of their compounds and barry is arrested
along with the cartel schafer finds him in his
cell and tells him that his house will get raided
and lucy will most likely be brought in
for questioning and be kept overnight
when barry gets out he goes home and urges
lucy and the kids to pack up their things so
they can move despite lucy's questioning
barry says she cannot tell her a thing
leading her to lose trust in him barry's
family moved to a remote town mena arkansas
in an empty apartment schafer meets with barry
again and is then given the assignment to move
guns for the contras even being allowed to own his
own airport and planes for the job in the town his
first flight to meet with the contras ends with
them robbing his stuff instead of taking his guns
barry calls schafer to let him know that
the contras are not interested in the guns
on his second trip he brings gifts to
the contrast to avoid them robbing him
he meets with the cartel leader again jorge to
negotiate sending the guns to the cartel instead
barry brings guns to the cartel and ships their
drugs to the u.s and the contras while trying
his hardest to avoid being detected by the law the
whole operation got so big barry had to get some
help barry gets four other men pete stan cooper
and bob to help him on his trips when he realizes
the workload is too much for one guy to pull
off they fly separate planes on their missions
delivering the drugs schafer then asked barry to
bring back some of the contras to the us for the
cia newly established training base upon arrival
however some of them escape as soon as they arrive
as barry's business grows he starts to contribute
to the community and provide even more for his
family while also shamelessly indulging in his
wealth and setting up fronts in the community
to hide all the money he has over 105 million
dollars saved in trust in banks even some packed
in bags at home some buried in the wood behind
his house and 90 pounds of gold in his closet
not to talk of one of the bank and mana that built
his main vault he has his fingers in every pie on
the rack barry's freeloading brother-in-law jb
moves in whom barry is not fond of needing a job
barry sets him up working at the airport
eventually he started stealing from barry money
he was hiding the hangar using it to buy himself
a new car and to pick up an underage girl the dea
starts to go after the pilots on one mission berry
crash lands and loses a significant portion of the
drugs meanwhile the cartel runs into trouble
when escobar declares war on the government
and the cartel gets kicked out of colombia
barry must meet with them to sort out the issues
at the same time jb gets arrested by the town's
sheriff after he is caught carrying a suitcase
full of laundred cash after bailing jb out barry
drives him to a separate car so that he can leave
and give some money and a plane ticket to bora
bora jb demands weekly cash insults lucy and
barry as barry chases after him jb is killed in
his car by a bomb placed by the medellin cartel
who has previously promised to take care of jb
problem barry gets rid of the car by dumping
it in the woods very in shape for me to discuss
what's been going on schafer says the contras left
since they just weren't fighting the cia then
starts to get rid of anything involving barry
barry attempts to move the stash of products out
of the airport but he is found by dea atf arkansas
state police and finally fbi he is then arrested
barry meets with a prosecutor Dana Sibota who has
held it on getting barry locked up as he waits
outside while she speaks to a higher superior on
the phone barry tries to bribe the agents with
caddies while also insisting you will walk away
scot-free sibota comes out and confirms that barry
is free to go barry is given a task by the white
house under ronald reagan's administration to
gather dirt on the sandinistas all of whom are
believed to be drug traffickers barry has no
choice so that he can escape his prosecution
they ask barry to get photos that tie the
mendellin cartel to the nicaraguan sandonistas
they set up cameras and a plane for barry to get
photos as proof barry returns to meet with jorge
ochoa and the rest of the mendellin cartel
as he still has their trust barry engages in
business with them moving products into the plane
where the photos are taken while watching news at
home the white house later releases the photos as
propaganda and barry is seen in the photos barry
gives a call to the white house and he is told
that they were not supposed to be released to the
public until after the cartel members were caught
when barry realizes he is screwed he has a good
time with his family before the dea go through
barry's house looking for evidence digging out
all of his cash and money in the house lucy takes
the kids to baton rouge barry is convicted and
is sentenced to one thousand hours of community
service he moves from hotel to hotel each night
making video recordings of his experiences barry
fears an explosion anytime he starts his car
as his community service is performed at the
salvation army building every night barry
cannot hide from the cartel on one such night he
is approached in his car by hitman sent by escobar
and he is subsequently murdered the final text
states that schafer got promoted after suggesting
they get the iranians to arm the contras one of
barry's guys went on to become a pastor in alabama
after he was set free the rest of the pilots
weren't seen after that the cia continued
to use barry's plane to arm the contras until
one of the planes was shot down over nicaragua
the ensuing scandal was known as the
iran-contra affair lucy returned to
louisiana with the kids the last thing we see
is her working as a cashier at a coffee shop
still wearing a bracelet that barry gave her
thanks for watching please don't forget to
subscribe and turn on the notification bell
to get noticed when a new video is uploaded